President-elect Donald J. Trump on Tuesday tempered some of his most extreme campaign promises, dropping his vow to jail Hillary Clinton, expressing doubt about the value of torturing terrorism suspects and pledging to have an open mind about climate change.

But in a wide-ranging, hourlong interview with reporters and editors at The New York Times  which was scheduled, canceled and then reinstated after a dispute over the ground rules  Mr. Trump was fiercely unapologetic about repeatedly flouting the traditional ethical and political conventions that have long shaped the American presidency.

He said he had no obligation to establish boundaries between his business empire and his White House, conceding that the Trump brand   is certainly a hotter brand than it was before. He defended Stephen K. Bannon, his chief strategist, against charges of racism, calling him a   decent guy.And he savaged Republicans who had failed to support him in his unorthodox White House bid.

The interview demonstrated Mr. Trumps apparent eagerness to please his audience and his tendency to speak in generalities, even as he was pressed to elaborate on policy positions that propelled him to a convincing and surprising victory over Mrs. Clinton two weeks ago.

After stoking cries of   Lock her up!at campaign rallies by vowing to prosecute Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Trump expressed empathy toward his former rival. He said he has no interest in pressing for Mrs. Clintons prosecution over her use of a private email server or for financial acts committed by the Clinton Foundation.

  I want to move forward,he said.   I dont want to move back. I dont want to hurt the Clintons, I really dont.

The president-elects turnabout on the need for torture as a tool in the fight against terrorism, which he repeatedly endorsed during the campaign, was remarkable. Mr. Trump suggested he has changed his mind about the usefulness of waterboarding and other forms of torture after talking with James N. Mattis, a retired Marine Corps general, who headed the United States Central Command.

  He said, Ive never found it to be useful,Mr. Trump said, describing the generals view of torturing terrorism suspects. He added that Mr. Mattis found more value in building trust and rewarding cooperation with terror suspects:   Give me a pack of cigarettes and a couple of beers and Ill do better.He added:   I was very impressed by that answer.

Torture, Mr. Trump said, is   not going to make the kind of a difference that a lot of people are thinking.

Mr. Trump repeated that Mr. Mattis was being   seriously, seriously consideredto be secretary of defense.   I think its time, maybe, for a general,he said.

On climate change, he refused to repeat his promise to abandon the international climate accord reached last year in Paris, saying that,   Im looking at it very closely.But he said   I have an open mind to itand that clean air and   crystal clear waterwere vitally important.

He held out assurances that he did not intend to embrace extremist positions in some areas. He vigorously denounced a white nationalist conference in Washington over the weekend where attendees gave the Nazi salute and criticized Jews.

Asked about his antagonism with the news media and his vow to rethink libel laws, he told the group, which included The Timess publisher, Arthur O. Sulzberger Jr., and other executives:   I think youll be happy.

But pressed to respond to criticism in other areas, he was defiant. He declared that   the laws totally on my sidewhen it comes to questions about conflict of interest and ethics laws.   The president cant have a conflict of interest.

He said it would be extremely difficult to sell off his businesses because they are real estate holdings. He said that he would   like to do somethingto address ethics concerns, and he noted that he had turned over the management of the businesses to his children.

But he insisted that he could still have business partners into the White House for grin-and-grab photographs. He said that critics were pressuring him to go beyond what he was willing to do, including distancing himself from his children while they run his businesses.

  If it were up to some people,he said,   I would never, ever see my daughter Ivanka again.

Mr. Trump rejected the idea that he was bound by federal anti-nepotism laws against installing his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, in a White House job. But he said he would want to avoid the appearance of a conflict and might instead seek to make him a special envoy charged with brokering peace in the Middle East.

  The president of the United States is allowed to have whatever conflicts he or she wants, but I dont want to do that,Mr. Trump said. But he said that Mr. Kushner, who is an observant Jew,   could be very helpfulin reconciling the longstanding dispute between the Israelis and the Palestinians.

  I would love to be able to be the one that made peace with Israel and the Palestinians,Mr. Trump said, adding that Mr. Kushner   would be very good at itand that   he knows the region.

  A lot of people tell me, really great people tell me that its impossible  you cant do it,Mr. Trump added.   I disagree; I think you can make peace.

  I have reason to believe I can do it,he added.

Mr. Trump made a forceful defense of Mr. Bannon, who he named to become his chief strategist and who has drawn charges of racism and anti-Semitism. He said Mr. Bannon had been dismayed at the reaction to his hiring.

  Ive known Steve Bannon a long time. If I thought he was a racist or alt-right,he said,   I wouldnt even think about hiring him.

Mr. Trump added:   I think hes having a hard time with it, because its not him. I think hes been treated very unfairly.

He also defended Breitbart, the news site Mr. Bannon ran, which has carried racist and anti-Semitic content, saying it was no different than The Times, only   much more conservative.

