In Trump’s America, California is Hillary Country and Looking to Secede

While blue states like Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Michigan turned red for Trump, California turned a deeper shade of blue.
Progressives claim to hate “walls,” but they’re working overtime to erect a massive wall between Hillary Clinton’s Utopia (California) and Trump’s America, and there’s no longer any real resistance behind that big, blue wall that houses Hillary’s Utopia. The California GOP lost even more seats in the Assembly, in what can only be described as a massacre. California is pretty much into it’s own country.

Trump’s brand of politics taking tough stances on hard-core issues that the GOP establishment would rather soft-shoe was a winning formula. However, the California Republican establishment tried to blend in with the Democrats. Thus, you see the demise of the California GOP.

People seek leadership on issues not platitudes. However, since Republicans in California couldn’t make up their minds whether they wanted to champion conservative values, they have been overrun by Democrats.

California is now Hillary Country. So it’s not a surprise they would want state secession.
The Yes California Independence Campaign hopes to put a question on the November 2018 ballot that would authorize a statewide independence vote for the spring of 2019. This effort drew little attention until Trumps election for President, which also kept  fellow Republicans in charge of Congress and raised the possibility of a conservative shift on the U.S. Supreme Court.  Any effort to get an issue on the ballot requires the gathering of hundreds of thousands of signatures.

The call for California’s secession is especially loud in Silicon Valley.

Prominent tech industry investor Shervin Pishevar was among those voicing his support as the election results came in.  Pishevar and Yes California suggest California could be economically self-sufficient, given the size of its economy.

“As the sixth largest economy in the world, California is more economically powerful than France and has a population larger than Poland,” the group said in a statement. “California compares and competes with countries, not just the 49 other states.”
Calls for California to secede from the union are not altogether new. Novelist Ernest Callenbach proposed transforming California into an eco-friendly country separate from the United States in the 1970s.

A separate plan to divide California into six states was proposed by venture capitalist Tim Draper in 2014. It failed to gather the signatures required to quality for the 2016 ballot, CBS Los Angeles reported.

In Portland, Oregon, two residents filed a separate petition for a 2018 ballot initiative for Oregon to secede.

California wants out of the Union represents wishful thinking on their part. Nevertheless, let’s look at the bright side.

The rest of America won’t have to send Federal money to support the indigenous lazy out of work dope heads.

Further Californians would have to pay for their own abortions, nor would we fund their disproportionate Social Security and Medicare.

Perhaps most importantly, no more Nancy Pelosi, Barbara Boxer, Jerry Brown or other dingbat politicians to listen to.

Let’s hope California follows up on its “threat.”