Remember when we mocked the Obama administration for wanting American families to talk about Obamacare at Thanksgiving. No one really talks about health insurance during while eating turkey or watching football. Well, it looks like liberals are once again proving that they don’t have the maturity to handle differences of opinion as the holidays draw nearer. Liberals are disinviting their pro-Trump relatives from Thanksgiving and other events. No, I’m dead serious. A bride and her fiancé are moving their planned wedding to Italy to prevent relatives who voted for Trump from coming; some relatives can’t travel that far. Others have endured abuse from siblings and family members via text over the election—and yes, there are those who are simply refusing to sit at the same table with those who voted to Make America Great Again (via NYT):

Matthew Horn, a software engineer from Boulder, Colo., canceled Christmas plans with his family in Texas. Nancy Sundin, a social worker in Spokane, Wash., has called off Thanksgiving with her mother and brother. Ruth Dorancy, a software designer in Chicago, decided to move her wedding so that her fiancé’s grandmother and aunt, strong Trump supporters from Florida, could not attend.
[…]
It’s all one big giant contradiction in my eyes,” said Laura Smith, 30, a small-business owner in Massachusetts who was attacked on Facebook by a relative for voting for Mr. Trump. “She’s saying to spread the love,” Ms. Smith said. “But then you’re throwing this feeling of hate toward me, your own family member.”
Many Democrats harbor their own feelings of being under siege.
“It felt like a rejection of everyone who looks like me,” said Ms. Dorancy, 29, a naturalized American who immigrated from Ghana about a decade ago. “It was a message to me that ‘You are not equal in our eyes. You do not deserve a place in our country.’”
So she and her fiancé looked at their guest list and decided to hold their wedding in Italy, a distance too far for the relatives to travel. “I just don’t want them around me on the most important day of my life,” she said.
Yes, there was a story about a liberal professor from Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster, who in her words, is viewed as an alien with her extended family due to her education, world travel, and support of Hillary Clinton. Yet, let’s be honest. The overall temper tantrum over Mrs. Clinton’s upset loss is mostly confined to those with progressive views. These people don’t like to feel uncomfortable. They like their ivory towers, the safe bastions that are America’s cities. You seriously can’t eat with a Trump supporting member of your family? There are some members of my family whose views I find absolutely wrong; my parents and I are continents apart on Second Amendment issues. And yes, I’m probably going to be one of the few members of my family who voted for Trump on November 8. But we don’t cancel on each other because we’re not snowflakes. My mom, the die-hard liberal that she is, reinforced diversity of opinion in the household and that decades-long project has paid off. My sister is an Independent (or at least that’s what she tells me), my brother has become more conservative lately, and my dad is a Republican. No one has the majority in the Vespa household, which means two things: a) we accept that we have different views; b) when we do debate, it’s a bloodbath. Still, we don't cancel on each other. I can’t believe that some folks are nuking Thanksgiving plans with family over an election. Is it really that awful? Are liberals that thick, fragile, and wrong? I guess so.